SC Meeting W52 --- Wed 2025/12/31
==============

This is the agenda document for the SC meeting on Wednesday Dec 31st 2025 for the SC 2025 W52 meeting. That's 6PM UTC, 10AM PST, 1PM EST, 7PM CET, and 9PM Moscow time.

This will become the meeting notes document during the meeting.

# Attendees
- Members: @philiptaron, @roberth, @Ericson2314, @tomberek
- Chairperson: @tomberek
- Observers:
- Recorder: @tomberek
- Absent (celebrating New Years Eve): cafkafk, luj, K900

# Approve Previous Minutes
- Done: https://github.com/NixOS/steering-committee/blob/main/minutes/2025-12-10.md
    - Merged to public repo, but not in Discourse

# Correspondence and Reports (5 min)
- [x] @tomberek: Invited Edef to subsequent meetings per previous meeting.
- Nixpkgs team report: deferred
- Moderation present state: deferred

# Async Updates (5 min)
None

# Old topics (60 min)
- Formal meeting structure proposed: please review @tomberek's PR async.
- Moderation Team: announcement update
    - Working Session: review of comments
        - @tomberek: this announcement is to describe the current state
        - @philiptaron: the FAQ is my invention. Please re-write at will.
        - working session took place here ...
        - Document is updated. see PR

# New topics (20 min)
- Split vote log into individual files:
    - Voting:
        - +1: @tomberek @philiptaron @roberth @Ericson2314
    - Approved and done in PR: https://github.com/NixOS/steering-committee/pull/15
- Scheduling and Calendar Management
    - proposal that chairperson does this
    - @tomberek will add this to the formalized meeting PR
- NixCon location proposal / NixCon Team Issue
   - deferred to discuss with broader SC

# Announcements (5 min)
- Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!

# Tasking (5 min)
- @Ericson2314: split vote-logs into individual markdown files
    - vote log in https://github.com/NixOS/steering-committee/pull/16
    - done in https://github.com/NixOS/steering-committee/pull/15
- @philiptaron: create bootstrap community team working document as PR to nix-steering-internal
    - Done: https://github.com/NixOS/nix-steering-internal/pull/59
- @tomberek: meeting notes
- Select chairperson for subsequent meeting: @philiptaron by unanimous consent.
