SC Meeting W50 - Wed 2025/12/10
==============

This is the agenda document for the SC meeting on Wednesday Dec 10th 2025 for the SC 2025 W50 meeting. That's 6PM UTC, 10AM PST, 1PM EST, 7PM CET, and 9PM Moscow time.

This will become the meeting notes document during the meeting.

# Attendees

- Everyone: @philiptaron @JulienMalka @Ericson2314 @K900 @cafkafk @roberth @tomberek
- Note taker: @roberth
- Julien had to leave at the 35 minute mark (noted below)
# Reports

## Standing EC

- @tomberek to report on adding a third to standing EC
  - They've been informed and are expected to post a call, so next step is EC finds new member
- @Ericson2314 [previously proposed](https://nixpkgs.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/542895-SC/topic/Establish.20standing.20EC/near/560019613) to use the 2025 EC zulip for communication
  - @JulienMalka :+1: 
  - @Ericson2314: This is now a non-issue because we have a new zulip?

## New community team
- @K900 talked to mod team alumni now that vote is public
  - Not everyone has responded yet
  - No names shared yet, currently 1 yes, 2 maybe, no rejections
  - @JulienMalka: please reach out to your network to request folks to join. goal: by next meeting have a slate to start the bootstrap team.
  - @K900: I've asked the last team (who quit); everyone who was there knows. I also reached out to some people from (even) earlier mod team.
  - @philiptaron: @emilazy has requested a public announcement. I'd like us to do that.
  - @K900: That may interfere with the process of forming the bootstrap team. Should take no more than a couple of weeks
  - @philiptaron: previous SC has waited for done too much. Would prefer to communicate better with community
  - @Ericson2314: and also, we can address the old mods in our public announcement, in case they had missed our private reaching out.
  - @K900: I've already reached out, so we could say that we have done that instead.
  - @JulienMalka: commit to provide a draft
  - @philiptaron: let's table and refine a draft

# Async vote updates

## [Vote: A first sketch of a full moderation team](https://nixpkgs.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/542895-SC/topic/Vote.3A.20A.20first.20sketch.20of.20a.20full.20moderation.20team/with/562323472)

- Proposed by @cafkafk on 2025/12/05, open until 2025/12/10
- Open currently as of 2025/12/08: 1 :+1:, 3 :-1:, 3 :ab:
- In conflict with the interim moderation team proposal

Discussion:
- @cafkafk: @JulienMalka proposal won, but my criticism still stands and would like that reflected in the document. Link to proposal
- @philiptaron absolutely must post the vote and proposal publicly. Key part of transparency.
- @tomberek: Agrees with cafkafk's criticism and would like to know how the accepted proposal is going to be different from what has been done in the past.

## [Vote: Interim moderation team composed by Mod alumnis](https://nixpkgs.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/542895-SC/topic/Vote.3A.20Interim.20moderation.20team.20composed.20by.20Mod.20alumnis/with/562425600)

- Proposed on @JulienMalka on 2025/12/05, passed on 2025/12/06
- Final count: 5 :+1:, 1 :-1:, 1 :ab: 

# Old Topics

# New Topics

## Async vote end time

- @philiptaron: would like end time to be recorded in vote
- @cafkafk: create a vote that changes and demonstrates it?
- @K900: zulip templates might be a thing, I'll look it up
- @JulienMalka: proposes the change as a vote immediately
(This is where @JulienMalka had to leave the meeting.)
## Formalized meeting structure and norms

(Merged agenda points and discussion)

- @tomberek Formalized meeting structure and norms.
    - This has helped us in the past SC when things got chaotic.
    - Today's structure is the begining. Need to document and write it.
        1. Attendees
        2. Meeting notes approval
        3. Reports
        4. Old Topics
        5. New Topics
    - Have an assigned chairperson to drive the agenda and keep on timeline.
        - Discussion: volunteer? assigned? approved?
        - Include time estimates for agenda items.
    - Recommend a minimal form of "Robert's Rules".
        - TODO: create a page with a few references for people not familiar with more formal meeting procedures.
        - There's also different ecosystems we could pull from instead (but less familiar)
        - Let's document our version of the process
    - Consideration for note-taking.
        - Hard to contribute while not taking.
        - Having external notes-takers was helpful last year.
    - Thoughts, feedback, discussion?
- @K900: can set up transcription, may allow note taking to happen after the fact
- @K900: let's discuss after we have a proposal
- @cafkafk: I would prefer an external person. I have doubts about automation.
- @roberth: Automation would have to be a parallel track
- @philiptaron: It's extremely important to have good structure. The proposed structure has provided that in the past few meetings. I support its good bias towards decision making and deliberation, away from the bad bias of mere discussion.
- @JulienMalka: Happy that Tom is drafiting in that direction
- @K900: I'm concerned that the chairperson would be seen as the most important
- @philiptaron: I disagree that the chairperson is most important. It's a sacrifice role, not a power role.
- @cafkafk: I've seen the opposite happen. Rotating is good so that everyone takes their share
- @tomberek: A failure mode is around new topics. Rotating avoids that. We need the community to create and train leaders, and this helps.
- @philiptaron: This makes the practice of leadership in meetings spread, which is good (very paraphrased)
- @Ericson2314: Very happy to have these rules. They indeed were very good for the last SC. Looking forward to voting yes on what Tom writes.
- @tomberek: in the spirit of this proposal, I believe I have sufficient feedback, so let's table this for the moment

## NixCon team

### Agenda

- @JulienMalka: Would like to organize a meeting with people wanting to create a Nixcon team, to hear them out and see if they'd be willing to adapt their proposal. We don't need to be all here, can delegate this to subpart of SC. Luj is okay to drive it.

### Discussion

- @philiptaron: Unfortunately @JulienMalka had to leave. I support this
- @K900, @cafkafk, @roberth: agree this is important
- @tomberek: Does not decentralize decision making. Proposal doesn't look like help, but attempt to control how NixCon is part of the community. Unsure whether that's the intent.
- @cafkafk: I wonder how much decentralization is about not having a cohesive policy around sponsorship.
- @tomberek: Last year we did the sponsorship procedure and it worked really well. This is a group of local organizers that seem self-selected. Small group geographically, so it can't be intended to support global NixCon places. "What is the true NixCon" could lead to problems. If it can be a global support team that would be great, but the proposal does not seem to
- @cafkafk: I can see your point.
- @K900: It's unclear what exactly they want
- @tomberek: Julien proposed to clarify this exact thing.
- @K900: Let's wait for that then.
- @tomberek: Tabled until we have input via Luj
- @philiptaron: Meta issue: The one who does the sweeping gets to choose the broom. We make sure it happens, but do not dictate how it happens.
- @tomberek: agreed w/@philiptaron, I am in support of a proposal from a set of local organizers to be selected for next year.
- @Ericson2314: Part of the idea for a meeting is to discuss Tom's concerns in real time with the NixCon team proposers.

Tabled.

## Observers

### Agenda

- @Ericson2314: invite observer to SC meeting. 
  - Edef was an observer for the last SC, the entire time, and would like to consider doing that.
  - Silvan was note taker towards the end of the last SC

### Discussion

- @philiptaron: Prev Sc had @infinisil and @edef1c as observers. I have no objections to having observers. (@roberth: @edef1c, but Silvan only in the end taking notes)
- @cafkafk: Would like to extend this opportunity to new people
- @philiptaron: They have to retain *some measure* of confidentiality, which is a high bar to clear.
  - @Ericson2314: +1 on earned trust
- @tomberek: This should not be considered as a long term position. This has been abused in the past. People have said the (observer) part very quietly, almost claiming to be on the board.
- @tomberek: If you want to know what the SC does, you are welcome to take notes
- @cafkafk: That is a very "open source" approach. I absolutely agree.
- @philiptaron: Seeing nobody is in opposition, let's invite @edef1c to our next meeting
  - @Ericson2314: +1
  - @roberth: +1
  - @K900: +1
  - @tomberek: +1
  - @cafkafk: +1

Motion accepted.
