SC Meeting 2025-12-04
==============

# Roll call
- Attendees (6/7): @philiptaron @julienmalka @Ericson2314 @tomberek @K900 @roberth 
- Absent: @cafkafk (traveling abroad)
# Reports
## Standing EC

- @7c6f434c is stepping down
- Item: tell remaining 2 people (@ners, @RossComputerGuy) to find a third
    - @tomberek will do this

## Updates on async votes / discussions

### Stabilize flakes vote: done, [rejected](https://github.com/NixOS/steering-committee/blob/main/vote-logs/2025-2026.md#vote-3-stabilize-flakes-declaring-flakes-stable-and-shipping-them-as-such)
- @tomberek: proposing that we find an intermediate step
- @k900: people should not use the SC to second guess team-level decisions
    - even if this comes from "inside the house"
    - the missing piece from SC activities has been team delegation
- @philiptaron: it *is* the SC direction to steer teams. If the Nix team has backburnered a topic, then prioritization is within the realm of SC. How to accomplish specifics is a team-level issue. @cafkafk ran and got many votes, and I will honor both that mandate and respect her focus on this topic. I advocate for the rest of SC to do the same.
  - @Ericson2314 agrees
- @k900: not opposed to the outcome.
- @tomberek: still believe there is a potential next step and we should make another proposal.
- @julienmalka: @cafkafk is not present and I'd prefer addressing the topic when she can defend her vision. Propose to table.
    - Second/Third: @tomberek, @philiptaron
    - Passes
- @ericson2314: I think if @cafkafk or anyone else from the SC wants to take point on this topic, the next step is for them to attend the Nix Team meeting, and the Nix Team should present on that topic / answer any questions on that topic.


# Topics
## Rebuilding the moderation team
- @julienmalka: Wrote a proposal for reconstituting the moderation team.
    - It is ideal to leverage people who have experience with moderation or have expertise.
    - Using the old moderation team to bootstrap, if they are willing. This sidesteps problems with bikeshedding specific names.
   - The SC can still steer the process.
   - Potential moderators should feel they are not being judged for views, but instead leveraged for their competencies. 
- @Ericson2314:
   - Generally a good proposal.
   - Drawing the bootstrap team from even *all* past moderators continues our moderation path dependency problems.
   - Committing to moderator diversity is a way to scrutinize the views of candidates *less*.
- @k900:
    - Said it before and will again because it is important: don't want "diversity of opinion" as a goal on the moderation team. Moderation is about doing something in the moment, means you may be the only person around and there is no time to hold general meetings. This breaks if there isn't alignment at all, which can happen. If there are unaligned, then we end up with debating inside the team. This can end up having more bias because of desires to counteract and purposefully balancing outcomes.
    - Nice idea to have the tension and diversity, but in practice it will mess things up. It ends up with problems.
    - There is a lot of history here and many people have stated their opinions. I don't think the old team was selecting for a political bias. Don't see the things people complain about actually happening. Think the old team was doing a pretty good job overall. Don't think we need to specifically select for political disagreements, because the political stuff is a small part, even if loud.
- @Ericson2314: not asking for a full committee-style decision making process that slows things down. It is feasible to sync or inform later on.
- @tomberek: We have a relatively diverse moderation team on the unofficial Discord which works out pretty well. We still have trust that on-the-spot decisions can be done and that people inform each other of actions taken and that if something needs full team input we have a channel to discuss such things. This also provides more ability to use the right person to reach out to specific people if it can help:
  - moderator most likely to be listened to can approach the person needing disciplinary action

- @philiptaron: I'd like to state some agreements between everyone, as I see it:
    - immediacy matters
    - moderators need to be able to back out of decisions
    - moderators need to be trusted by the community
    - sense in the discussion on Zulip that others thought the old moderators bootstrapping would not work, but not sure why that would be the case
- @philiptaron: As the current proposal stands, I would support it.
    - What's missing is a statement about what the official Nix discussion spaces are for.
    - Why do we have spaces to talk at all?
    - This is crucial to understand what we are moderating for. "We" is an agreement about what is invited and who is disinvited.
    - So, "Yes" on structure of the proposal.
    - "No" in that something is missing, a decision about what our spaces are for.
        - I am still working on fleshing out words to articulate this idea. It needs to consider existing norms and/or changes can cause another round of disagreement. I'm trying to be careful to get this right.
- @julienmalka: 
    - Bootstrap team is tasked to create a moderation philosophy document. The intention is to describe the sorts of things @philiptaron mentions. Things like K900 presented in earlier meeting: role of moderation, goals, and broadly how to achieve them. Moderation philosophy should not be only top-down, but created with the people that will use it.
    - This could be a new deal of how moderation will be done.
- @k900: what you are describing is called a CoC. The current CoC is not that, but if we make a document like that, it should be called the CoC. This might piss a specific group of people off, but I think that's a good thing.
- @tomberek: the impression the previous SC had that the CoC wasn't followed or viewed by the moderators at the time was why we started doing more and more oversight into the mod team.
- @philiptaron: (in chat) Code of Conduct in 2025 I think will be different in effect than it was in the 2020 era.
- @philiptaron: (in chat) Here's what I'd like to model our "what this space is for" on:  https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/discussions/6937 -- this is from Pluie.
- @Ericson2314: I like the direction the discussion is going. We have found the core issue. 
    - Lassulus had proposed a small set of people helping that are his friends and he trusts -- none of which are ex mods. I would be fine to have them do temporary moderation to relieve the pressure, but to have no say in the future development of moderation.
    - @tomberek: I think it would be okay to have previous moderators have a say. It likely best to find a middle ground between no input as a consequence of resignation and full control of the reboot. [Clarification was made that the proposal was not about excluding previous mods from planning for what comes next, but some random friends of @Lassulus that are willing to volunteer as temp mods.]
- @k900: there is a danger that such people would establish precedent
- @julienmalka: should not bring in people that we do not vet
    - proposal is to reinstate trusted moderators to build space and collaborate to find a global solution
    - gives old mods what they wanted, a seat at the discussion, and gives the SC a chance to negotiate a global change.
- @tomberek: This is the idea of having the mediator help us have those discussion.
- @k900: just having someone to control that conversation as a neutral party is not necessary, anything else will not be helpful if we don't know what we want out of it. 
- @tomberek: I don't see the disconnect between @julienmalka's proposal and the mediation proposal.
- @philiptaron: @k900, please clarify
- @k900: not sure what the expected outcome is. Engaging professional help takes time and effort. Don't see the value in those conversations if we don't know what the goal is.
- @philiptaron: Do you mean that we should try on our own?
- @k900: we should talk to people from the old moderation team. We should have some people in mind and have some idea of where it is going. If we can't figure it out on our own, then we can engage external help. Going with mediation feels like stalling.
- @tomberek: As a point of fact, our mediator is quite willing and wants to move faster. Several of us have met with them even prior to election and the "lame duck period" we had. In fact, I would say the stalling is from those who said they did not want to engage until after elections. Having a third party help us do this is specifically to help us move faster.
- @julien: OK for facilitator, but we need to scope their action: time period, goals, good measures for success.
- @k900: I think the problem is there is a disconnect or miscommunication of the role of the mediator. Are we engaging with the mediator as an expert consultant or to facilitate discussion? Where did the mediator concept come from? Having someone as a consultant role or creating a framework might be helpful. There might be no point in a mediator as you can't go back to the previous norm.
- @tomberek: to clarify, there were two separate people and external help we have been discussing
    - a mediator to help facilitate and have fruitful discussions
    - a moderation advisor to advise on bootstrap. Specifically, no expectation to moderate, only to advise.

### @julienmalka: can we summarize?
- @roberth: I support Julien's proposal
- @Ericson2314: I am asking we address the need for a change from the pre-existing norms. I want non-former-mods to be involved too, not just former mods (though I do want former mods to be involved).
   - I also think separating temp mods from deciding how moderation/community happens henceforth is an easy solution.
- @philiptaron: I support Julien's proposal. Encourage some action, even if it is not what everyone desires. I will propose and draft some words to try to talk about the higher level purpose of our spaces. With regard to mediation, I don't have time to engage with external parties sync, but async is possible.
- @k900: in favor of original proposal. Whatever decision is made, it is not forever. Things we don't need to mess up is that we need to do something. Show some action and that we care about community. Doesn't have to be perfect in the moment. Don't be afraid to make a non-perfect decision. Need to do something soon. Don't want a temporarily solution because the final solution of moderation will never arrive.
- @tomberek: I don't see a big difference between Julien's proposal and what the SC should have / wanted to do all along. I support.

