SC Meeting 2025-11-13
=====================

**Present**: John, K900, Robert, cafkafk, Tom, Luj

**Absent**: Philip (family vacation)

# Agenda

- Roadmap Review
- Constitutional Proposals
- Formalizing meetings
- Team updates 
- team relationships
- What method to rebuild the moderation team?
    - K900 presents his POV about moderation
- (if time permits) go through the unresolved email backlog addressed to steering@nixos.org


# Notes

*In practice, meeting focused exclusively on topics around moderation, with a large part of the meeting being a presentation by K900 of his experience and beliefs around community management, followed by discussions.*

K900: Want to get the moderation stuff out of the way, wants to address the elephant in the room. I was fired from the moderation team from doing thing I don't think were wrong. Think comes from misunderstanding. A lot of things that people were saying sounded like "we should have rules", but thats is not how moderation can work. 

cafkafk: want to catch up to the context of the moderation team conflict before discussing further.

K900: stands with everything he said. The intervention is about why SC was thinking about this wrong. K900 wants to explain how he and the other people in the moderation team think about moderation.

K900: goal of community management: keeping the community healthy. Doesn't mean there is no conflict. Conflict is unavoidable. 

K900: *shows slides*. Summarized content follows:

> - community management is not just moderation
> - is inherently political, because it shapes the identity of the community
> - is not a case of applying well-defined rules, requires trust and understanding and context and in many cases intuition; important to know how bad actors operate
> - main goal is to ensure the community is healthy, not to ensure everyone feels good (which is not possible); nice people quit quietly, bad actors make noise; ideal level of noise is non-zero
> - often have to make hard decisions that will hurt individuals, but community must come first
> - fundamentally about "vibes" - what do we want the community to feel like? how do these people/these conversations change the feel of the community? - not something that can ever be formalized or measured directly, inherently requires a lot of trust in the community managers


John: Overall I think we should take this to mediation. The point of the mediator is to help us having productive discussions. We were not trying to make moderation go easy on right wingers, we wanted more moderation and more strictness. K900 talks about how some amount of conflict is good and a sign that people feel comfortable expressing themselves, but I would add that the way the conflict goes also matters. K900 also talked about the hidden cost of people silently leaving who might otherwise stay, but I would say that a frequent instance of that is people that don't like conflict, and don't want to be in middle of debates. Moderation should protect them too. Good to have left K900 a place to talk and wish the SC and him could have done this sooner (with the old SC).

Luj: I think mediation is good way forward to go, @mediator could be used as a facilitator to reach a decision on how to rebuild the moderation team. 

cafkafk: Not sure if mediation is going to be productive or more noise 

K900: Don't know if there's anything to mediate here. The intervention was not about the specific situation, but what community management works. Sure @mediator has a lot of experience, but not sure what the point is.

John: Mediation is to take a step back and dig up the underlying things and see if worldviews are compatible. 

cafkafk: Are we discussing specifically K900 being removed? Or is it a broader discussion?

John: Going to start pretty broad, and we might have touch K900's removal.

Luj: In my opinion the discussion to have is about rebuilding the moderation team

Tom: Overall, lots of contents. Correct question: what kind of community do we want to be? Not sure there is actually a fundamental disagreement about this. Getting some answer to that is going to be helpful. We have to figure it out otherwise we renew the same disagreements. Mediation might be helpful for this. Problem is that it takes time (months), and we don't want Lassulus to burn out.

cafkafk: More ambitious about the timeline here. Also think that it's super important that Lassulus gets more moderators to help. 

Robert: We could start looking for people AND have them involved in the process with the mediator

K900: We have to be very careful with who is involved in this. Once we have some sort of team formally given the task of shaping the community it's going to be a big signal that this is what we want the community to be. You cannot have "neutral" people that do that kind of work. The kind of people that we want to have in this positions are not people that want to do it.

John: Invite the old moderation team back on a temporary basis, provided they participated in the mediation, feels "neutral". (They might or might stay on after depending on the conclusions of mediation.)

K900: Old moderator do not want to come back, but maybe they'd ok serving as "advisors".

Tom: Elections are indications of groups that are represented, which partially answers the question "what we want the community should look like"

K900: There is a difference between what community is and what we want it to look like. 

Tom: Point is we are not starting from scratch; use elections results as a starting point.

cafkafk: Prepare future meeting to be more productive. Over time. 

John: We should not have meetings like this and we should do this (longer freeform discussion) in mediation instead. We can have regular meetings for normal business.

Luj: Meeting dysfunctional, propose to have some kind of leader that we change for each meeting to ensure we keep on topic, follow agenda, etc.

K900: We can do most of it async; use zulip if we can and avoid meeting. 

John: Do as much async as we can, but if there is agenda left over we have to continue meetings

Tom: The healthy way would be to do both; when async derails we have the sync meetings. 

John: wants to vote that everyone should meet with @mediator

cafkafk: Would never force to meet with someone

K900: Do we need this ? Is anyone reticent to meet @mediator ?

cafkafk: Would be reticent to meet @mediator if forced

Tom: Process that we are going to try to do. Question is: are we going to fund another month of @mediator?

cafkafk: Has to look at the matter async, can't decide right now.

K900: What exactly are we funding? 

cafkafk: Flat fee for the first month and then hourly fee

Tom: fixed fee, approved until end of first SC. When the new SC starts it's on "good faith" basis.

John: I suspect that we are still in the fixed fee period

K900: Can we check this ?

Tom: Lassulus is the one that executed the invoice with the details. Look at "Community Crisis Relief Fund".

cafkafk: Would be useful in all the details were provided for the async vote. If there is not immediate need to continue the meeting could we continue async.

*After verification, the mediator has been hired by the NixOS Foundation to help create a common understanding between the old moderation team and the Steering Committee with a fixed fee covering the first month of work (oct 10 - nov 10), and is now operating on a hourly rate basis.* 
