# SC Meeting 2025-11-05

- SC Attendees (4/7): @philiptaron @julienmalka @Ericson2314 @tomberek (quorum)
- Observers: @edef
- Board: @ronefroni @lassulus @infinisil

## Agenda

### Reports+Discussion
- Updates from the Board
    - @ron
        - Smaller team that is more focused.
        - Hope to maintain a sync, monthly basis.
    - @infinisil
        - Usually direct communication has also worked
    - @philiptaron
        - As new SC members gain context, they will be able to better coordinate. Getting more context from Board is a main priority.
    - @Ericson2314
        - Board has had built-in homework, not the SC.
        - Silence looks like things hidden, but mostly when there was less to talk about.
    - @tomberek
        - Do we do hands-on steering, or mostly big picture?
    - @philiptaron
        - Hands-on should be via involvement in the community, not as SC.
    - @Ericson2314
        - Mostly can be hands-off, but there are exceptions.
    - @philiptaron
        - Writing is thinking, thus much of it can be async.
    - @julienmalka
        - Concrete example would help.

- Administrative issues
  - Accounts
    - Current state
      - Julien: Some Matrix channels
      - Philip: Some Zulip channels non-admin as well
      - Tomberek: Freescout and GitHub should be provided
    - Decision made on historical records access?
      - tomberek: Okay with that, even if there are some issues as well
      - Julien: Would be good for context
      - John: Okay with that.
        - If there was some e.g. private message in there that wasn't consented to be shared.
        - Don't know if that happened or purely hypothetical
      - infinisil: Consent of old members for their messages to be shared?
        - Philip: SC is a body, doesn't make sense to not think of SC comms be one
      - Julien: Okay with it, gets us up to speed
      - Conclusion: Agreement
    - SC <=> Moderation channel doesn't have history, share archive of it?
      - Philip: Fine as all channels are, can adjust defaults later, let's not do so now (only changing the policy going forward)
    - tomberek: Doing GitHub team change
    - John: Doing Zulip subscriptions
    - freescout: @infinisil done that
        - tomberek: warning, Freescout has tended to be marked as spam by filters
    - Offboard old members?
      - Philip: Wait until we have a full meeting with the new SC
      - (agreement)
  - Philip: Decider protocol: Put thumbs up/down in video
    - John: Let's use reactions during meeting (have been doing that)
    - (agreement)
  - Access
    - tomberek: Done - GitHub notes repository and Steering Team update in NixOS org.
  - Scheduling
    - tomberek: proposal Wed 1800 UTC via [CrabFit](https://crab.fit/sc-two-meeting-one-337469) 5/6 Need K900 response
    - Good to have a set time to get things done instead of them getting forgotten

### Board Report

- @ronef: Areas of focus:
  - financial and taxes has been taking time, in touch with experts
  - lot of effort from @lassulus and @infinisil ðŸ«‚
  - Don't have clear number on how much of the bank balance can be spent
  - Trademark registration pending.
    - Will need SC input on trademark policy from
  - Funding
    - Trying to spin up more reliable funding mechanisms, sponsorship tiers, though not a lot of results yet
    - Grant program is being worked on
  - Trouble with Dutch foundation when we don't have a Dutch business or personel, might need to switch to a different jurisdiction.
    - Eclipse foundation switched to Belgian AISBL, could consider that too

### Old Business

- Mediation
  - @tomberek: Effort was started, meetings, some funding for a professional
    - Could use that as the mechanism of context building and knowledge transfer
  - @John: Mediator is also a mod, was involved with hackyderm
  - @Julien: Yield any results? State of old moderation team? Mediation between whom?
    - @tomberek: Some old mods had a discussion with mediation. At this point information gathering stage
    - @tomberek: Would make sense to schedule a call with mediator.
    - @Julien: What's the state of old mods, @lassulus? Rebuild necessary?
    - @lassluus: Don't think old mods would come back. Have some people interested in helping out
    - @Julien: Point of mediation? For people to come back or?
    - @lassulus: Figure out solution to different opinions, perhaps compromise, not achieved at this point
    - @John: What mediation should accomplish -> Set bar too high or low
    - @Julien: Still need to rebuild moderation team from just @lassulus regardless of outcome
- Moderation
  - @tomberek: Current status: @lassulus is doing all the moderation, but some things are handled by local admins.
    - @lassulus: Not fun to do, no failover, am the only one. Local admins help (Matrix a bit so so though), but not sustainable, wanted to offboard as a mod before, but at least getting decreased workload would be good
  - @lassulus: Want mods to be required to agree to new mods, don't want SC to be able to appoint mods without mods agreeing
    - @Philip/@Julien: +1
    - @John: With this rule, initial composition becomes very important. Successor path dependency. Would all prefer this and never need to go against it
    - @tomberek: Oversight how?
      - @lassulus: Can still decline moderators
  - @Julien: How do we get candidates? @lassulus said there's some. Most urgent to get movement, then we can discuss candidates
    - @lassulus: Asking people from social circle because I know them
    - @John: Want it to be public, don't want it to be from the same social circle
    - @John: Public ask, both mods and SC need to approve, fairly unbiased filter
    - @lassulus: Also makes filtering harder
    - @John: Willing to put the effort
    - @lassulus: People are unhappy if being rejected as mods
  - @tomberek: Moderation advisor, help with bootstrapping rather than reinventing the wheel ourselves
  - Previous Moderation notes:
    - Vote to approve Moderation Advisor: information REDACTED
      - @lassulus: Guess should talk to them then, can email
      - Vote deferred.

[Julien has to leave, Philip left at the same time, meeting ends]

- Roadmap

### New Business
- Team updates
- Proposals and Brainstorming

