# Meeting agenda - Wed 2026-03-18

## Attendees
- Members: @tomberek, @K900, @Ericson2314, @JulienMalka, @philiptaron
- Observers: @edef1c
- Chairperson: @tomberek

## Housekeeping (15min)
- @Ericson2314 Approve Previous Minutes
  - https://github.com/NixOS/nix-steering-internal/pull/66
- Pick next chairperson: @JulienMalka

## Correspondence and Reports (5 min)
- @tomberek: nix-darwin joining as an official project
  - Interested, but blocked on discussion due to travel. Will re-engage after Mar 25th.
- @tomberek: home-manager joining as an official project
  - Interested, but there is a desire to have moderation in place beforehand. Discussion is ongoing.
- @philiptaron: TODO: write a Discourse call out for future management and coordination of the nix-community project/subproject.

## Async Updates (5 min)

- @roberth async: horizon: Valentin believes it's going well. Should I invite him to next meeting? may need input on projects
  - @philiptaron: agree, please do so
  - @Ericson2314: also agree to invite, great to invite
  - unanimous agreement
- @roberth: docs team is setting up. infinisil in the loop every 2 weeks. next milestone is docs vision document 

## Old topics (15 min)
- Moderation Team
  - need to publish notes of the vote to extend bootstrap period
  - @K900: next steps?
      - Some people still/already have permissions
      - Need to work on CoC and vision document
      - TODO: @K900 to announce new composition and status as follow-up from January announcement.
  - @tomberek: recommend we have further discussions with the team in a shared channel instead of 1-on-1.
  - @JulienMalka: started zulip channel, but not seeing lots of energy/momentum at the moment

## New topics (20 min)
- CUDA funding proposal from the Board
  - @tomberek: CUDA team funding to support the team members, fund a PM, and provide hardware.
  - @K900 worried about Anthropic participation. Not clear on where the money goes. Companies setting the priorities is weird; it should not happen at the team level. Sets dangerous precedent for companies to pay specifically for the things they want. Having a company pay for a specific team and control that team's priorities is something we should not let happen. Are there potential conflicts of interest?
  - @JulienMalka: how is this different from STF / NGI / etc?
  - @philiptaron: (in chat) Reaction to Ilya: I do not have any problem with any of these worries. We're in a place where CUDA is defacto the primary way in which GPUs are being made use of in the world. Therefore by excluding Nix on these grounds is theoretical hand wringing with no connection to the ground truth. 
  - @K900: not specifically a CUDA issue, but generally about the principle
  - @Ericson2314: CUDA support happens throughout Nixpkgs, but is not enabled by default.
  - @K900: worried about the principle of an external company providing the direction
  - @tomberek: Requesting more information from the Board of the proposal. Generally I am in favor of bringing in funded support for commercially critical portions of the ecosystem.
  - @K900: still concerned about Anthropic participation
  - proposal to table for now pending further communication with the Board
- @cafkafk: [meeting notes proposal](/vote-logs/0011-meeting-note-sla.md) in Zulip on Mar 16th to have a meeting notes SLA of 5 days (proposal was rejected)
  - (note: @cafkafk was not present at the meeting due to travel)
  - @philiptaron: We need to share this work more broadly.
  - @JulienMalka: Sad that this has not taken place as a basic function of our responsibilities.
  - @K900: busy, but I will make a commitment.
  - @tomberek: I'm asking for an edit to the proposal to be 7 days... just seems to be de-facto easier. Today as chairperson I just stalled the full meeting until we did review and publishing of the notes. So I'm in agreement with the spirit of this, but that enforcement mechanism generally happens at the 7-day mark.

- @JulienMalka: board grant proposal: see and read in zulip, please review.

## Announcements (5 min)
- N/A

## Tasking (5 min)
- @philiptaron: write a Discourse call out for future management and coordination of the nix-community project/subproject.
- @K900: announce new composition and status of the moderation team as follow-up from January announcement.
- @tomberek: follow up with the Board on the CUDA proposal and request more information.
- @roberth: invite Valentin to next meeting to discuss horizon project.
- @Ericson2314: finish minutes publication for Mar 4th and 11th meetings.
- next chairperson: @JulienMalka
