# Meeting agenda W20 - Wed 2026-05-13

## Attendees
- Members: @cafkafk, @Ericson2314, @JulienMalka, @philiptaron, @roberth, @tomberek
- Observers: @edef1c
- Recorder/Chair: @cafkafk
- Absent: @K900 (internet issues)


## Housekeeping
- [x] Approve Previous Minutes
- [x] Pick next chairperson

- @tomberek/cafkafk: We need to publish meeting notes from 1st, 8th, 22nd.
- W15 @cafkafk Board Meeting (not to be made public)
- W16 @cafkafk
- W17 @philiptaron

- The chairperson is responsible for getting the meeting notes published/reviewed.

## Correspondence and Reports (5 min)

- @cafkafk: Valentin wants to discuss learnings from EU funding.
- @cafkafk: Valentin will probably ask to be in a meeting with us at some point.
- @cafkafk: do you all want to do this, yes no:
  - @tomberek: Yes
  - @philiptaron: Yes
  - @roberth: Yes
  - @JulienMalka: Yes
- @cafkafk: we are doing this next week

## Async Updates (5 min)


## Old topics (20 min)
- @tomberek: AI Policy
- @tomberek: We started discussing this, Robert has a draft, thinks discussions didn't lead to decision, and in meantime Nixpkgs Core came up with their own policy, we should talk more with them, policy has been shared with them
- @cafkafk: shared room for this was made, has the policy been shared with them yet, in this shared space?
- @tomberek: yes
- @cafkafk: What is our next step. On paper, the ball is a bit in their court, but we should probably make something happen regardless.
- @tomberek: it is in our court, they produced something, they didn't know we already had a thing, it's a communication problem, we need to work on this, now next step is approve roberts draft and publish. We can also consider their proposal.
- @cafkafk: Who is against approving, what would it take to approve roberts.
- @roberth: clarifies: policy is a default policy, can coexist with other policies, including nixpkgs, might be confusing, we have to communicate clearly.
- @JulienMalka: hasn't gone deep into topic yet (will do), ask roberts if he had time to look at nixpkgs core team policy.
- @roberth: I think it's same ballpark, hasn't studied it thoroughly, hasn't found time, but still in process of changing it, also looking into new rust policy for rust compiler. Might be wrong time to compare
- @tomberek: Only feedback regarding wording, template around responses (e.g., avoiding confrontational labels like "slop" to prevent extra work for moderation), but else thinks content is good and reasonable.
- @philiptaron: has feedback, unfortunately didn't get sent, but about neutral language, toning down emotive responses, and being really clear about what is over the line and clarity about policy. Goal for default posture, we present same emotional feeling regardless of which nixos project is used. Nixpkgs will be a special case, but shouldn't be the case for all projects.
- @cafkafk: By next week, let's all have addressed this fully, so we can vote on roberts policy.
- @roberth, @Ericson2314: policy is already a PR ready for your comments or feedback in other forms

## New topics (20 min)

- @cafkafk: Valentin wants to publish learnings from EU funding.
- @cafkafk: Valentin wants to do a discourse post, about what he learned. He thinks this will be good publicity.
- @cafkafk: could also use [nixos blog](https://nixos.org/blog/).
- @cafkafk: we have a week to read his report, then let's decide if we want to let him write something. His report is not the same as what we would publish, and I also said that even if we approve doing this, we likely want to also approve the final thing before he posts it.

- @tomberek: More NixCon sponsors
  - PDT
- @cafkafk: does anyone have any reservations
- [the room was silent]: unanimous approval
- This was approved on zulip
 
- @philiptaron: I haven't been able to create time to work on NixOS topics for the past couple months, and it's not looking good for the next two. How can I help with a reduced hour budget?
- @cafkafk: you are not alone in this, I see that a lot of people have reduced time.
- @cafkafk: emails. I know they suck, sorry.

## Announcements (5 min)

## Post Adjournment

- @cafkafk: Briefly discussed ongoing engagement with the Moderation/Bootstrap team and how to best support their process asynchronously.
- @philiptaron highlighted the importance of continued coaching towards positive outcomes to ensure community consent.
- @roberth suggested the SC could draft a "moderation philosophy document" to help facilitate async progress and give the moderation team a concrete framework to review.


## Tasking (5 min)

- [x] @cafkafk: we need a chairperson for next time. 
  - @roberth is chairperson next time.
- [x] @cafkafk need to publish notes for this meeting.
- [ ] @cafkafk pushes notes from W16
- [x] @cafkafk invites Valentin next week

- [ ] @philiptaron: Draft a reworded version of the AI Policy to incorporate neutral language and tone down emotive responses before next meeting.

- [ ] @all: review AI policy and provide suggestions/feedback (https://github.com/NixOS/nix-steering-internal/pull/71)
- [ ] @all: read Valentin's report before next week
