# Attendees

- Members: @philiptaron, @roberth, @cafkafk, @tomberek
- Observers: @edef1c
- Recorder: @philiptaron, @roberth

(@ericson2314 was travelling to Planet Nix.)
(@JulienMalka was travelling to Planet Nix.)

# Agenda

## EU Horizon question from board

Vote: Recommend Valentin for EU Horizon role.
- +1 @philiptaron
- +1 @tomberek
- +1 @cafkafk
- +1 @roberth

## Change the May 2026 to allow bootstrap community team more time

Proposal: extend to August 15th  so that there is no overlap problems with outgoing/incoming SC

This is a similar amount of time as originally planned.

Votes on this:
- +1 @philiptaron
- +1 @cafkafk
- +1 @roberth
- +1 @tomberek
 
## nix-community

background:
 * jonas made it as an incubator for the very conservative nixos org
 * goal was integration into the nixos org for selected successful projects
 * less successful recently (just vibes, not that involved)
 * @tomberek it provided a place to move faster that didn't involve the stagnation the foundation presented at the time
 * @tomberek it has been helpful for instance for the CUDA hydra and did it
 * @tomberek that sort of thing is how they're able to create value when it gets bogged down for "NixOS"
 * @philiptaron is there a successful graduation story you can think of off the top of your head?
 * @tomberek no
 * @roberth maybe nixfmt? no, that was in Serokell's org before.
 * @edef1c nothing coming to mind
 * @edef1c graduation **into** nix-community is a key process -- home-manager, for instance.
 * @tomberek at some point, there just wasn't a way to move into nixos but not official
 * @tomberek this was a good middle ground between the two poles: purely personal, and fully official
 * @cafkafk great place for making sure a project is owned by a larger group whereas NixOS Foundation was quite slow, certainly at that time
 * @philiptaron how much of those governance problems remain to the present day?
 * @edef1c there's also a third angle: being able to disclaim responsibility for the hydra instance - separate "this is the foundation" from "this is not quite the foundation"
 * @philiptaron that axis disappears if we fund them, doesn't it?
 * @philiptaron how can we support the value in nix-community now that Jonas isn't holding up part of this?
 * @cafkafk i am unsure that if we fail to support, it will change outcomes 

any proposals? currently this is a brainstorming spot.

 * @philiptaron keep it as-is, "pave the goat paths" by saying clearly this middle ground status
 * @cafkafk keep the heterodox, anything-goes nature of what can go into here
 * @cafkafk very good for the whole project to have these spaces

### Call for a workgroup to help organize nix-community infrastructure

On discourse:

1. Modernize and cost-optimize the nix-community infrastructure
2. Support from SC to work with foundation on a lower budget than currently exists
3. Make a proposal or do the work in the next two months (til end of April)
4. Broad authority given the cessation of the organization otherwise

Vote:
- @cafkafk: +1
- @philiptaron: +1
- @tomberek: +1
- @roberth: +1
 
### home-manager

Proposal: home-manager meets the bar for the NixOS organization. If they are amenable, they can join NixOS organization on GitHub. 

Vote:
- @cafkafk: +1
- @roberth: +1
- @philiptaron: +1
- @tomberek: +1
 
# Action items

- write process for becoming a @NixOS project @cafkafk
- run the next meeting: @philiptaron
- see you at planet nix
