# Meeting agenda - Wed 2026-03-25

## Attendees

- Members: @philiptaron @K900 @Ericson2314 @roberth @JulienMalka
  - Joining at the 45 minute mark: @tomberek
- Observers: @edef1c
- Recorder: @philiptaron

## Housekeeping (15min)

- Approve Previous Minutes
  - Internal notes (merged)
  - https://github.com/NixOS/steering-committee/pull/22 (merged)
- Pick next chairperson:
  - @JulienMalka
  - will be shared with the board

## Correspondence and Reports (5 min)

- @K900 - work on the announcements about ~~Moderation~~ Community Team
  - Did not do it, will do next week
  - Later: @JulienMalka will do it
- @JulienMalka: we were supposed to invite Valentin, did that happen?
  - @roberth: yes, they were not available at this next time, will happen eventually

## Async Updates (5 min)

- @roberth: Ron/Flox will look into age verification legal situation
  - We agree that we'd wish this just goes away, but we need more info

## Old topics (15 min)

- Moderation team
  - *A discussion took place. Details are internal.*

- CUDA proposal
  - 3 +1 from SC members on the Zulip thread (Philip, John, Tom)
  - @philiptaron Is this a vote? I think so. But it's really unclear.
  - @JulienMalka wanted the SoW before voting, still want that; let's continue to push
  - @K900 the exact terms are still being discussed per @infinisil, might take some time, but that's fine
  - @JulienMalka the blurriness here is not great; we should clarify the uncertainty
  - @roberth (in chat): constitution: Collaborate with the NixOS Foundation Board to set policies and priorities for high-visibility actions, events, and resources under the Foundation's care. Both the SC and the board need to approve such policies.
  - @philiptaron move to table and talk with board at next meeting (April 1st)
    - Everyone in favor

- Board grant proposal
  - @philiptaron gave a dramatic reading of this proposal
  - @Ericson2314 overall approach is very good, the CUDA stuff was supposed to be the first of these to go through. We should be careful that we're not special-casing that.
  - @Ericson2314 is the foundation going to do something like this at all or not? That's the big question.
  - @roberth pretty good, some nitpicks in the process, but love the overall approach
  - @JulienMalka I like it, it's a good model, the two funding sources address common issues
  - @JulienMalka The SC so far has not provided technical guidance, the proposal implies that it will; that's additional work and will require careful coordination with teams, but good idea
  - @Ericson2314 we can and should consult teams, but we don't need to do that in a way that gets us bogged down where everyone is waiting for everyone else to make decisions
  - @Ericson2314 we have worked on a roadmap before, so not worried about having to do that
    - @roberth (tangent) we should adjust the Windows part of the old draft roadmap. This sort of direction has become less popular in the European part of the community, and it has already started organically. (asyncly: not the worst; platform support is still good, but perhaps not best roadmap item)
  - @K900 it's a good start! We can try it and see what happens. We will probably have to adjust several things based on reality.
  - @philiptaron I like the idea, I have some doubts as to our community's ability to deal with money in a dextrous way
  - [Vote #12: Approve direction](/vote-logs/0012-grant-program-direction.md) — ✅ Accepted (6-0, 1 absent)

- Meeting notes proposal (@cafkafk)
  - @JulienMalka move to table because Christina is not here
  - All in favor, moving on

- Google Summer of Code mentors
  - A concern was raised about a GSoC PR listing Nixpkgs contributors as possible mentors without notifying them or getting their consent.
  - @roberth: will look into this
  - @roberth: just ideas, maybe unexpected messages were received, ideas have to be converted to proposals by contributors and they still have to be submitted to Google, *and* then approved by mentors themselves. This is still a work in progress.
  - @tomberek: merging doesn't mean done nor set in stone, it's hard to convey this, there are docs about it
  - @philiptaron: move to table, addresses my concerns

## New topics (20 min)

- Election Committee stuff
  - *A discussion took place. Details are internal.*

- AI policy
  - https://discourse.nixos.org/t/how-should-we-handle-software-created-with-llms/76061
  - https://discourse.nixos.org/t/policy-on-vibe-coded-nix-tools/76300/14
  - @philiptaron (in chat) I love Debian's non-take on this and think we should follow suit
  - @roberth: I am working on a proposal.
  - @tomberek: we have an avenue of encouragement and not just restriction
  - @roberth agree
  - @philiptaron I don't want those who LOVE AI or HATE AI to take over the Nix project
    - @Ericson2314, @roberth agree

## Announcements (5 min)

- Release cycle announced: https://discourse.nixos.org/t/lets-have-a-great-26-05-release-cycle/76588

## Tasking (5 min)

- @roberth will follow up on Emily's GSoC concern
- @tomberek will continue to follow up with Tristan and Ners (did so in the meeting)
