# Meeting agenda W16 - Wed 2026-04-15

## Attendees
- Members: @cafkafk, @JulienMalka, @roberth, @K900, (late: @tomberek) (barely, @Ericson2314, who is on jury duty)
- Chair/Recorder: @cafkafk

## Housekeeping
- Approve Previous Minutes
    - [x] @JulienMalka will create PR for notes from last week, and enrich them with the transcript
- Pick next chairperson
    - [ ] w17 @K900, if that fails @tomberek

## Correspondence and Reports (10 min)

- @roberth: Proposal by Lassulus for exfiltrating binary cache
- @K900: we need more time. It came up an hour ago.
- @JulienMalka: not first time it's on the table, requires lot of human labor, if we are too slow it will dry out.
- @K900: if the question is, do we give 3k foundation money for this, sure, fuck it
- @cafkafk: +1
- @roberth: the alternative is the opportunity expires, it will be 40k if we don't do it now
- @K900: last time egress costs killed it
- @K900: last time someone talked to amazon people, they didn't want to sponsor this.

- @cafkafk: are we all for doing this
- @JulienMalka: if the 3k is to fund servers for the self-hosted cache initiative, +1, let's do it

Vote: 3k+ for self hosted cache for ocean sprint
- @cafkafk, roberth, luj, k900: +1
    - async: @tomberek +1

- @K900: doesn't know if this count, but we should post community updates

- @K900: also google summer of code, submission is next week
- @roberth: mentors have accepted some proposals for that, so we have submitted something. We currently have 3 proposals submitted to the Google system.
- @K900: thought we needed to have individual proposals submitted to google
- @roberth: yea
- @K900: there is a list of things they accepted?
- @roberth: not really accepted... They have been submitted into the google system, and we have received them and in terms of accepting them that will depend on what we enter into the system
- @K900: emily asked because she definitely there is stuff there that should involve the nixpkgs core team
- @roberth was moving around here
- @K900: not fan of modular services. Was hoping before we send off to get approval by google, the relevant teams would approve first, e.g. nixpkgs teams. If not we might have a problem.
- @roberth: for gsoc merging things aren't a requirement
- @K900: it's still good. Money is being paid for this, so it should be worth doing.
- @roberth: will look into it and show it to the relevant people, and see what they say, before hitting confirm on gsoc
- @K900: thinks I misunderstood the project, understood that when it was sent to google it was final, and they're the final party that agrees, but if we send it and they say okay and then we approve it again, that's fine
- @roberth: approximately correct, actually deadline for contributors is--- they had a deadline two weeks ago to submit proposals, they enter into google systems without review, then we have to get in contact with them, and the deadline next week is when we have to approve their proposals from our side, and that's when it actually goes "over the fence" and google will refuse/accept proposals.
- @K900: definitely at least nixpkgs core needs to be involved, because they definitely... I think they also have some ideas for this.
- @roberth: there is no time for new proposals
- @K900: another thing is to get this earlier next time, rushed it a lot, people didn't know who was responsible for what.
- @roberth: definitely late to start, should have proposals after nixcon next time.

- @K900: doesn't know if this count, but we should post community updates
- @cafkafk brought this up again here

- @roberth: read cuda team and approve if you do
- @K900: hasn't gotten to it yet
- @cafkafk: same
- @roberth: not a ton of text, but approving it very soon is important. Because we can lose the deal if we are too slow. Explicitly says funder has no right to set technical direction or prioritisation, or selection of implementors.

- @K900: doesn't know if this count, but we should post community updates
- @cafkafk brought this up again here
- @cafkafk: k900 brought this up, "take the wheel"
- @K900: there is a draft @JulienMalka wrote, had a longer draft but it's taking too long, and we should post this if we're okay with it.
- @cafkafk: has to read it
- @K900: we can all read it now

https://nixpkgs.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/542895-SC/topic/Announcement.20Bootstrap.20team.20composition/with/585689527

- @cafkafk: only thing I would change is to commend lassulus even more, but I vote in favor of posting


Vote: Posting this moderation update now:
- +1: @K900, @cafkafk, @JulienMalka, @tomberek, @roberth
- -1:

- @roberth: last sentence is weird
- @cafkafk: roberth is gonna word smith
- @K900: alternatively, just drop the "stepping down" part - he can write his own announcement if he wants to, we don't need to explain something he already did
- @roberth: agreed, let's do that

- @cafkafk: slack thing, has everyone joined yet
- @K900: hasn't got invite yet, thinks it might be slack supporting trade restrictions/sanctions.
- @cafkafk: would not be surprised if this was the case, can you try with a new email.
- @cafkafk: john ericson, did you get the invite yet.
- @cafkafk: julien did you also not get it
- @JulienMalka: also didn't get it,
- @cafkafk: the problem is that companies are way more interested in being in zulip
- @roberth: we could also set up a bridge
- @cafkafk: not gonna do it, lot of work, and it's technically a channel in the flox space, so flox probably don't want to set that up
- @roberth: could ask Ron, it's up to them

## Async Updates (5 min)

No async updates

## Old topics (20 min)

No old topics

## New topics (20 min)

- @tomberek: any progress on starting discussions with the new moderation team? We talked about the philosophy sync but it's been pretty quiet.
- @K900: they've been discussing things internally, don't know if they've decided on anything specific yet
- @tomberek: if they're making progress internally we need to be having touch points at various times to prevent divergence. If they're coming to conclusions or we do, we have to talk to each other.
- @JulienMalka has made a link for signing up to discuss this

- @tomberek: anything we need to do right now on the CUDA proposal?
- @cafkafk: review and approve. @roberth said ~2 days would be ideal.
- @tomberek: approval will happen in the Zulip thread


## Announcements (5 min)

    https://discourse.nixos.org/t/announcement-of-the-community-team-bootstrap-group/77055

## Tasking (5 min)

- @K900: still has some access to mod access stuff, new community team needs to onboard
- @cafkafk: 80% sure hexa has discourse

- [ ] @K900 will onboard community team onto moderation tools, and reach out to hexa if needed
- [x] @JulienMalka will create PR for notes from last week, and enrich them with the transcript
- [ ] @Ericson2314 will post the meeting notes for today's meeting.
  - [x] @cafkafk ended up posting this instead
- [ ] @everyone should try to review the cuda stuff
- [ ] @roberth incorporate AI policy feedback
- [ ] @everyone (optional) that wants to discuss community team things should sign up for the meeting
