# Meeting agenda W18 - Wed 2026-04-29

## Attendees
- Members: @tomberek, @JulienMalka, @philiptaron, @roberth, @Ericson2314 
- Observers: @edef1c
- Recorder: @tomberek
- Absent: @K900, @cafkafk

## Housekeeping
- [ ] Approve Previous Minutes: NOT DONE, PLEASE REVIEW AND APPROVE
- Pick next chairperson
  - @JulienMalka
- @philiptaron: may not make next meeting due to conflict

## Correspondence and Reports (5 min)

- Bootstrap team report
    - @JulienMalka: have shared notes in Zulip. Discussed necessity of appeals process; available but avoid abuse. Can be mitigated by requiring two committers to appeal. Please read the notes and participate if available. Currently mostly brainstorming. Notes not yet public.
    - @Ericson2314: I am sorry I missed the zulip for this (which I shouldn't have), but please add me/us to invite in the future.
    - @JulienMalka: Sure, I just didn't have everyone's email on hand when I did that.
    - @Ericson2314: Thank you. There is also `steering@nixos.org` which is an easy way to get everyone to, they just won't be able to individually hit accept/reject.

- from SC email: NixCon 2026 sponsors, see below...

## Async Updates (5 min)
- N/A

## Old topics (20 min)
- @tomberek NixCon sponsorship process
    - https://github.com/NixOS/org/pull/244/changes
        - closing #251
        - merging #244
- NixCon sponsor approval (carry-forward from last week)
    - Tangled: gold (https://tangled.sh)
        - +1: @philiptaron, @roberth, @cafkafk, @JulienMalka, @tomberek, @Ericson2314 (retroactively, seeing this week)
        - abstain: @K900
    - Antithesis: gold https://antithesis.com/
        - +1: @philiptaron, @roberth, @Ericson2314 (retroactively, seeing this week), @tomberek
        - -1: @cafkafk: "I'm unsure what the community things, but my vibe check is that this would be contentious, and I'd be open to this sponsorship if it was shown to me that this wasn't contentious"
        - -1: @JulienMalka
        - abstain:
    - Flox: gold https://flox.dev/
        - recuse: @tomberek, 
        - +1: @roberth, @Ericson2314 (retroactively, seeing this week), @JulienMalka @philiptaron, @cafkafk
    - Modus Create: gold or diamond
        - +1: @roberth, @Ericson2314 (retroactively, seeing this week), @tomberek, @JulienMalka, @philiptaron
    - Result: all approved
- Coordination with Nixpkgs Core Team
    - Nixpkgs Core Team requesting to help prioritize GSoC project approval.
    - @Ericson2314: simultaneous rushed assembly and delayed execution of GSoC makes planning difficult. Meticulous planning is difficult. Projects do not mean merge approval.
    - @JulienMalka: this is a human problem about communication, not an engineering one
    - @roberth will provide an update when available
    - @JulienMalka: inviting Nixpkgs Core Team...
    - @tomberek: we are addressing the points regarding communication of project solicitation, selection, and future coordination

## New topics (20 min)
- retrospective on vulnerability release process
  - @philiptaron: what are the after-actions for our vulnerability disclosure processes? Delay between notification and getting fresh builds to people are a concern. When we have security vulnerabililty, we can show up in a good way, or a poor way; how can we have a crisp response?
  - @Ericson2314: mostly was Sergei and Mic92 on the release process side, and not me. Various release steps w/Hydra, GitHub actions, and I don't like GitHub actions. GitHub security process (e.g. private repo) is good, but only with Nix itself; it doesn't help with Nixpkgs and other downstream repos that also need to be update.
  - @edef1c: Security fork CI is poor. Private Hydra?
  - @Ericson2314: 100%. Would like to see more Hydra deployments. So much of what I do is ultimately about trying to improve Build latency, and this is a major use-case for that.
  - @tomberek: Major blockers were CI in the security forks and backporting.
  - @philiptaron: Gap is getting the fixes finally built and cached and available to users. How can SC improve the situation? Delay in fixing issues is related to Nixpkgs merge delay and Hydra build delay, especially when it comes to staging.
  - @Ericson2314: Love it! Let's look at our processes, look at delays, and go full [Taylorism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_management) on it.
  - @tomberek: can we speed things up by pre-populating caches and tests?
  - @roberth: fast-moving channels makes this harder. This suggests having another release cycle: security, master, channels.
  - @Ericson2314: our releases involve CI playing catch up. What security needs is for things to be available as the commit shows up. Might require blocking a channel during a security disclosure. We have to create a branch that we believe we can block on CI (every `--first-parent` commit passes CI before it appears in the ref) because CI is fast enough. 
  - @edef1c: Merge CI vs pre/post. Validation of each commit is expensive. Usual practice is branch off and merge by-exception. 
  - @Ericson2314: can we start with the backport flow? Require green for release branches. Current Hydra cannot even attempt this, but there is work of Hydra trying to be ofborg.
  - @philiptaron: with a large enough fan-out, it can be done. Something like rio-build
  - @Ericson2314: updates to Hydra coming out that might impact this discussion. This is also a good discussion to have with Nixpkgs Core Team; I will bring this up with them.
  - @tomberek: We can also consider improving or adding capacity to the Security team, consider things like funding, dedicated build farm, recruiting additional people, more communication/coordination.

## Announcements (5 min)
- @roberth: GSoC approval is expected this week including selected projects, contributors, and mentors.

## Tasking (5 min)
- @JulienMalka: chairperson
- @tomberek: post approvals into dedicated channel
- @tomberek: meeting notes follow-up
- @Ericson2314: 4/15th meeting notes
