SC meeting W1 2026 --- Wed 2026/01/07
======

This is the monthly SC-NixOS foundation board call.

# Attendees
- SC Members: @tomberek @roberth @Ericson2314 @philiptaron @cafkafk @JulienMalka
- Board Members: @refroni @ryantrinkle @lassulus @Ra33it0
- Observers:
- Recorder: @philiptaron
- Chairperson: @philiptaron

# Approve Previous Minutes
- We have some confusion about whether this is needed sync
- We didn't do it

# Correspondence and Reports (5 min)
- Board?
    - nothing
- NixCon team: deferred from 12/31 meeting
    - Discussion in the old topics
- Moderation present state: deferred from 12/31 meeting
    - Expected K900, actually was Christmas in Russia
    - Deferred to 2026-01-14 meeting

- Notifications of communication and correspondence
    - None

- Information gathered or tasked reports
    - None

# Async Updates (5 min)

- None so far

# Old topics (~20~ 50 min)

- NixCon location proposal / Who is NixCon Team? Issue
  - The question comes down to where NixCon will be
  - Helsinki or Slovenia or Krakow (@philiptaron was confused about whether OST was on the table.)
    - @Ericson2314: my understanding is that Alex was thinking of just doing OST again, but after the post-conference survey said that people like new locations for variety, that idea was discarded
  - FreeScout: proposal of the NixCon team (standing)
      - Sebastian and Lassulus are here in the call
  - @tomberek should we have a NixCon as a singular event or should it be many events
  - @lassulus we have to start planning again, Christmas was very busy
  - @philiptaron I am an American, I'll stay out of the "Where is NixCon" matter since it's EU centric
  - @Ericson2314 are we soliciting proposals?
  - @tomberek Yes, just a call for proposals
  - @philiptaron Drops a link in the chat to https://github.com/nixcon/nixcon-proposals
  - @cafkafk and there is https://discourse.nixos.org/t/thoughts-about-the-future-of-nixcon/55619/1



*The next topic has been partially redacted to avoid revealing private information*

- @JulienMalka: The documentation team requested support to handle cases of external links to commercial entities in the official documentation 
  - @cafkafk let's use the official documentation unless there's nothing to present on the topic
  - @cafkafk I think this is not controversial at all
  - @tomberek agree, it's not appropriate for the doc page to turn into a linkfarm for companies
  - @cafkafk especially so if there's a direct link from "binary cache" to "pay for commercial services"
  - @cafkafk I would like no product advertisements
  - @tomberek Perhaps a counterexample: there is a consulting page, it is not the best, but maybe this is a page that needs to exist. A "cordon" for needed business interests.
  - @cafkafk cordon is OK with me (I'm not sure what cordon means in this context)
  - @refroni isn't there some money for the documentation team?
  - @lassulus there is negative money. I need to investigate whether this is real or not.
  - @Ra33it0 As far as links go, there is the commercial page, there is the sponsorship opportunities, and we can highlight them more than we do today.
      - From an organizational standpoint, these are better than random links in documentation
  - @tomberek yes, but the other pages are much better SEO for the company than the sponsor page which approximately no one visits
  - Everyone: broad agreement and laughter
  - @cafkafk I think the SC should do something here and "take the heat" instead of having it be on the documentation team
  - @JulienMalka we can either do that or we can empower the doc team
  - @cafkafk we can do both even
  - @refroni we cannot put the onus on just one team or one person; we need to support the documentation team to be part of the team not just a single point of pressure.
  - @roberth agree, we cannot "wash our hands" of this (and that is not our intent)
  - @tomberek we should communicate here and announce the need, here's how you can help, talk to so-and-so
  - @philiptaron can I (chairperson hat on) have someone own it?
  - @roberth I can take that
  - @roberth talking from experience, we may want to manage expectations around nix.dev work or change team scope/priorities
  - @Ericson2314 I think that because nix.dev is more tutorial than reference, it is going to be contested
      - I generally would like doc team efforts to be focused on dry reference docs
      - which I think helps avoid these issues
  - @Ericson2314 you earn the right to write slick tutorials once you get your reference docs in order as a foundation (joking tone)
  - @roberth IME these tasks go hand in hand. Tutorial writing uncovers reference doc debt
  - @cafkafk need to do both, and different people and different skill sets
  - @Ericson2314 agree, that's what budget is for.
  - @cafkafk I agree with the budget side, we should not limit where people volunteer documentation, but we should move money towards the nixpkgs/nixos/nix manual, both writing docs and improving the static pages for it.
  - @roberth will reach out to the documentation team and communicate SC position

# New topics (20 min)
- None so far

# Announcements (5 min)
- Anything relevant to communicate to the community
    - NixCon (above)
    - Documentation team (above)
- Hopefully we have :white_check_mark: to communicate https://github.com/NixOS/nix-steering-internal/pull/59
    - @philiptaron I will edit this today to attempt to address the feedback
    - @philiptaron I want to ship this tomorrow or the next day (it has been in process for a month)
    - @Ericson2314 let's you and me @roberth do a pass ourselves first today
    - @philiptaron thank you that's helpful

# Tasking (5 min)
- Ensure required tasks have assigned been assigned to individuals
  - @roberth
    - contact documentation team
    - work with @Ericson2314 on community feedback suggestions
  - @Ericson2314:
    - work with @roberth on community feedback suggestions
  - @tomberek
    - NixCon call for location proposal to Discourse
  - @philiptaron
    - Post meeting notes
    - Drive conversation about moderation announcement
- Select chairperson for subsequent meeting.
    - @cafkafk will get the Zulip thread and the organization structure
    - https://github.com/NixOS/nix-steering-internal/blob/main/minutes/2025-12-10.md?plain=1 some discussion of "chair" in here
